now let's start in New York where the UN
Security Council has voted against a US
draft resolution calling for an
immediate ceasefire in Gaza linked to
the release of hostages Russia and China
were amongst three countries that vetoed
the US resolution it was the first time
the US had supported calls for an
immediate ceasefire in the region having
previously used its own veto to block
such demands at the UN well this is how
the US ambassador to the UN responded to
China and Russia's veto
Russian China still could not bring
itself to condemn hamas's terrorist
attacks on October 7th can we just pause
on that for a
moment Russia and China refuses to
condemn Hamas for burning people alive
for gunning down innocent civilians at a
concert for raping women and girls for
taking hundreds of people hostage this
was the deadliest single attack on Jews
since the Holocaust and a permanent
member of this Council can't even
condemn it I'm sorry it's it's really
outrageous and it's below the Dignity of
this
body that was the US Representative
there to the un uh just speaking a short
time ago well we know that uh Mr
Netanyahu has been having talks with
Anthony blinken and uh he has said in a
statement to uh after those talks which
has only recently uh broken up we think
um Mr netan who said said he to we we
talking about going into Rafa he said Mr
said I told him I hope we will do it
with the support of the US but if we
have to we will do it alone we know that
of course the Us and other allies of
Israel have been urging caution on that
particular move well let's speak to Mark
loen who is in Jerusalem for us Mark
just first of all on the US resolution
being vetoed initially what what is the
impact of that if any and we also know
that there is another draft resolution
that's doing the rounds at the
moment well it means that the resolution
of course was not passed at the UN
Security Council G because Russia and
China have veto wielding power now
Russia's un Ambassador said that it was
a false Declaration of a ceasefire false
call for a ceas fire because the text
that was supported by the US linked a
ceasefire to the immediate release of
hostages so in effect was supporting
Israel's negotiating position in these
talks in in in Doha which are still
ongoing ceasefire talks because Israel's
position is that there can only be any
ceasefire if the IM if the hostages
Israeli hostages held by Hamas are
immediately released um now even though
the US basically was sort of in line
with Israel's negotiating position it
was a a harder tone than the US has used
before as you noted in your introduction
uh previously the US had vetoed three
previous calls for an immediate
ceasefire and they've never use those
words immediate cessation of hostility
so you know the US was going further
than they ever had uh but still it was
blocked by Russia China and Algeria
Algeria so it it doesn't it doesn't pass
there is talk there is a second
ceasefire that uh um uh draft that is
going to be circulated we don't know
exactly how hard that will go but all
all through this conflict really um the
UN Security Council has been Paralyzed
by differing positions on the war and on
Israel's position in the war and
Israel's offensive um you know we've
seen the US hardened position growing ex
increasingly exasperated with Israel but
even that it seems has not been enough
to pass the deadlock of the UN Security
Council and Mark in terms of the talks
that happened um on the ground today we
we've seen um the Israeli Prime Minister
M Mr n who's coming out of these talks
and saying um that he still feels that
they will have to go into ruer in order
to defeat Hamas and if they have to do
that without the support of the US they
would still go ahead do we have any more
information as to how those talks
went all we know is that they lasted
about 40 minutes uh that they discussed
Rafer as you say which is in the south
of Gaza where more than a million people
are now Sheltering and where the
Israelis are determined to send in the
military in defiance of international
warnings about the atrocities that that
could ensue um they also talked about
the urgent need to deliver or or BL from
blink's point of view an urgent need to
ramp up humanitarian Aid into Gaza
amidst those dire warnings that we had
earlier in the week about famine and uh
catastrophic food insecurity facing the
vast majority of people in Gaza um the
US has summoned an Israeli delegation to
the to Washington next week to discuss
Rafa the US the US position is that
Israel does not need to go into Rafa in
order to destroy Hamas there are
alternatives namely to cut off
completely the smuggling routs coming
from Egypt across the The Crossing into
Gaza and feeding Hamas but whether
Israel buys that we don't know and at
the same time as Israel is you know
Netanyahu is repeating almost every day
his intention to go into Rafa the
ceasefire talks continuing in Doha with
the head of mosad the Israeli
intelligence agency there in Qatar with
the head of the CIA and Egyptian and
Qatari negotiators so Israel appears to
be kind of keeping its options open
playing to different audiences uh but
clearly if the Israeli military does go
into Rafa which probably could take
quite a few weeks to organize given the
number of people who would need to be
evacuated first that would even that
would exacerbate the already very very
fractur relationship between the US and
Israel and Mark difficult question
potentially for you to answer from where
you are at the moment so forgive me for
asking but but do we have any real
information about whether
representatives of Hamas or you know via
the any other Palestinian groupings are
involved in these talks these seasar
talks in they are they yeah they are in
effect represented by by the qataris uh
because their political uh wing of Hamas
has um has has been living in Qatar
basically the the sort of political
representatives of Hamas have lived in
Qatar so Qatar actually uh plays a
double or an important go between
between the Israelis and the and and
Hamas because even though they don't
have official relations with Israel they
do talk to the Israelis but they also
give um you know residency to to top
Hamas officials now what we understand
is that in order for an agreement on a
ceasefire to be reached they would need
to actually have the green light from
the head of Hamas in Gaza who is Yaya
sinoa and he is Israel's Most Wanted he
is believed to be the Mastermind behind
the seventh of October attx we don't
know where he is uh probably in a tunnel
somewhere possibly surrounded by Israeli
hostages but given the communications
black out there given the fact that he's
trying to evade Israeli Firepower it's
quite difficult of course for that for
for the qataris or indeed the Egyptians
to try to negotiate with him or or not
necessarily negotiate with him but to to
actually get his you know the the the
the words from the horse's mouth if you
like so that is one of the holdups in
the talks um and you know if there is to
be uh a a breakthrough in those in those
talks that would need to come from from
Hamas itself not just from the qataris
and the Egyptians so that is one of the
reasons G why we are not expecting a
breakthrough you know today or tomorrow
it could take days even weeks for this
to to to Really move